**Project created for my Data Visualization class in Spring 2020**

For this project, I chose to use data that looked at global animal disease outbreaks. The data came from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, which was logged in the EMPRES Global Animal Disease Information System.

This dataset contained over 17,000 records of various diseases and the animals affected. I first wanted to look at specific diseases that appeared in cattle, but when I tried to plot the data, the numbers varied so much that it made it difficult to plot using a scatterplot or bar chart (i.e. the only charts we've learned how to use D3 to make). I completely shifted my path and decided to look into chickens and two diseases that affect them: Avian Influenza and Newcastle Disease. For my final visualization, I only show the Avian Influenza because I discovered that the Newcastle Disease did not contain enough data to be comparable to the Avian Influenza; trying to include it would have taken away from the visualization and the story. I didn't, however, come to that realization until after I had spent the time making my code adaptable with functions that would allow me to graph two completely separate charts.

I originally wanted to use the reporting dates to plot the data, but I realized that there were multiple records for each day, so getting singular values for the sum at risk, sum cases, and sum deaths required more effort. To do this, I filtered the data to pull each unique reporting date and then found all of the records for each one, which I then used to find the averages for sum at risk, sum cases, and sum deaths for each reporting date. This was the final set of data that I pulled values from.

In terms of the visualization itself, I decided to use a scatterplot. I wanted to compare two separate quantitative data values to each other at any given time, and a bar chart would not allow me to effectively do that--unless I added a third axis. With a scatterplot, I was able to use points as my marks to represent each record. I also decided to use a dropdown menu with my graph because I wanted the ability to change between three different views to look at the relationships between the at risk, cases, and deaths.

At first, I wanted to incorporate three different channels: position, color, and size. For size, I wanted to show the percentage of cases vs. at risk, making the points bigger if the percentage was higher. I decided to scrap that because I came to find that I was trying to add too many channels. Changing the size of the points took away from the information I really wanted to convey. For color, I utilized it to show mortality rate. I wanted to make the points darker when there was a high percentage of deaths in comparison to the chickens at risk of getting the flu.

One of the most important aspects of my visualization (and something that took me the longest because I had to teach myself it) was the ability to zoom in on the data using d3.zoom. This was crucial because I had over 100 data points, with many of them being clumped together. With d3.zoom, the user is able to zoom in on the data and pan around to examine each of the points more precisely. I also added a reset button for data return to its original view. It was hard to add this zooming capability, however, because all of the information I found about it was slightly outdated and used different versions of d3.

The last part of my visualization is the tooltip. I wanted the user to be able to hover over the points to get info on that specific record. On hover, the user can see the date, the average sum at risk, cases, and deaths recorded for that date. I also made the tooltip the same color as the point to better see the mortality rate. The biggest challenge I encountered with this was getting the tooltip to work simultaneously with the zoom.

In the future, I would figure out how to better use d3.zoom. When it pans, the data points go past the y-axis, and I couldn't figure out how to fix that. Additionally, I might do something different with the color to represent mortality rate. I might just utilize two colors to show when the mortality rate was over 50% and when it was below.

Overall, I learned a lot from this project. I feel I've gained a better understanding of using d3, cleaning and examining large datasets, and making scatterplots with that data. 
